---
title: HEALICOIL Knotless Suture Anchor reference / technique guide - self-tapping
doc_id: 931903217e064cd8b312a9c2b9408358
company: SmithNephew
source_url: https://smith-nephew-delivery.stylelabs.cloud/api/public/content/931903217e064cd8b312a9c2b9408358?v=4f731ad0&download=true
source_type: pdf
procedure_family: rotator_cuff
page_count: 2
source: pdf
---

# HEALICOIL Knotless Suture Anchor reference / technique guide - self-tapping

Reference Guide 
Self-tapping
1. Pass suture through suture threader loop. 2. Pull suture threader to load implant with suture. 
Repeat 1 + 2 until all desired suture is loaded.
3. Locate insertion site. Prepare hole with recommended hole prep device 
listed in IFU.
4. Introduce device into joint and remove any slack in suture prior 
to insertion.
5. Insert distal implant into bone until proximal implant’ s first thread is 
positioned partially within the bone. Tension sutures to ensure appropriate 
tissue compression. Cleat sutures if desired. Verify the proximal anchor’ s 
first thread is positioned partially within the bone.
6. Descend internal plug by rotating smaller, most proximal knob. 
Rotate clockwise until a minimum of one click is heard.
7. Turn the larger, more distal knob clockwise to advance the proximal 
implant until the laser mark is flush with the surface of the bone. 
To remove inserter from the joint pull back on the handle.
8. Pull back on inserter to remove.

Learn more at smith-nephew.com
Sports Medicine 
Smith & Nephew, Inc.
150 Minuteman Road
Andover, MA 01810
www.smith-nephew.com
T +978 749 1000
US Customer Service: 
+1 800 343 5717
◊ Trademark of Smith+Nephew. 
©2020 Smith+Nephew. All rights 
reserved. All trademarks acknowledged. 
Printed in USA. 22198 V4 05/20
Ordering information
 HEALICOIL
◊
 Knotless Suture Anchors
Reference # Description
72205135 HEALICOIL Knotless REGENESORB Suture Anchor, 
5.5mm
72205136 HEALICOIL Knotless REGENESORB Suture Anchor, 
5.5mm, Self-Tapping
72205137 HEALICOIL Knotless PK Suture Anchor, 5.0mm
72205138 HEALICOIL Knotless PK Suture Anchor, 5.0mm, 
Self-Tapping
72205308 HEALICOIL Knotless Suture Anchor Drill Bit, 
Spade Tip, 4.75mm, reusable
72201915 Tapered Awl, 3.8mm, reusable
72202621 Tapered Awl, 3.8mm, disposable
72203710 5.5mm Reusable Threaded Dilator
72203952 5.5mm Disposable Threaded Dilator
All photos and diagrams are for illustrative purposes only. Products not to scale.
For more information on the application of any products discussed in the presentation, as well as 
indications for use, contraindications, and product safety information, please consult the Instructions 
for Use (IFU) for sure product. To order these instruments, call +1 800 343 5717 in the U.S. or contact 
an authorized Smith+Nephew representative.
