---
title: REGENETEN clinical summary - a decade of clinical evidence
doc_id: cfe3fcf50ec8446ba97b2f88e0248cf7
company: SmithNephew
source_url: https://smith-nephew.stylelabs.cloud/api/public/content/cfe3fcf50ec8446ba97b2f88e0248cf7?v=3b8ea7ef&download=true
source_type: pdf
procedure_family: rotator_cuff
page_count: 10
source: pdf
---

# REGENETEN clinical summary - a decade of clinical evidence

1/10
*On human biopsy (n=1) and in vivo sampling. †As of July 2024. ‡Representing 11 independent cohorts.
Introduction 
The REGENETEN Implant has a large and growing evidence base in rotator cuff repair.1–13 The REGENETEN Implant supports the body’ s natural healing response to facilitate new 
tendon-like tissue growth and change the course of rotator cuff tear progression.1,2,12–16 
The REGENETEN Implant is resorbed and shows tendon-like tissue at 
6 months*1,13,14
Effective treatment of rotator cuff tears can be challenging. Conventional treatment of PT tears commonly involves removing healthy tissue20 and results in lengthy rehabilitation,21 whilst repair of 
large FT tears has been associated with re-tear rates >50%.22 
With a substantial body of literature evaluating its use in rotator cuff repair (>650 patients across >10 
published studies),†1–13 the REGENETEN Implant has been associated with:
5 weeks 6 months
Clinical studies length of follow-up
29
REGENETEN Implant 
publications
2 Randomised Controlled Trials (RCTs)5,13
15 Human Case Series‡2,6-8,10-12,15,19,23,24-28
2 Human Histological Case Studies1,4
5 Systematic Literature Reviews (SLRs)29-33
2 Cost Analyses34,35
3 Registries3,9,18
>800
total patients studied
0 2 4 6 8 10
<1 year
1 year
2 years
5 years
Total no. of studies
12
 Evidence in focus
Clinical Evidence Summary
REGENETEN◊ Bioinductive Implant
Significant and clinically 
meaningful post-operative 
improvements in clinical 
outcomes, compared to 
pre-operative levels3,9,19
Lower re-tear rates than 
reported for standard repair 
techniques4–6,10,17
Low complication rates2,3,5–10,13
Rapid post-operative recovery9,13,18

2/10
Overview of REGENETEN◊ Bioinductive Implant clinical study publications in rotator cuff repair 
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings
Ruiz Ibán MA, et al. 
Augmentation of a 
transosseous equivalent 
repair in posterosuperior 
nonacute rotator cuff tears 
with a bioinductive collagen 
implant decreases the 
retear rate at one year. A 
randomised controlled trial. 
Arthroscopy. 
2024;40(6):1760–1773.
Available at (open access): 
Arthroscopy: The Journal 
of Arthroscopic & Related 
Surgery
Randomised 
controlled 
trial
FT 124 (enrolled),
122 (at follow-up)
(REGENETEN 
Implant group 
n=60; control 
group n=62) 
1 year At 12 months follow-up, compared with repair alone, repair of medium and large full-thickness 
tears augmented with the REGENETEN Implant demonstrated:
• Significantly lower re-tear rate (8.3 vs 25.8%; p=0.01)
• Significantly better tendon integrity (defined as Sugaya grades 1–3; 91.7 vs 74.2%; p=0.03)
• A three times lower risk of re-tear (RR=0.32; 95% CI: 0.13–0.83)
• No differences in clinical outcome measures between groups
• No difference in the number of serious or minor complications 
Camacho Chacón JA, et al. 
An isolated bioinductive 
repair vs sutured repair for 
full-thickness rotator cuff 
tears: 2-year results of a 
double blinded, randomized 
controlled trial. 
J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2024 
May 09. 2024;33(9):1894–
1904. 
Available at: Journal of 
Shoulder and Elbow Surgery
Randomised 
controlled 
trial 
FT 60
(REGENETEN 
Implant group 
n=30; control 
group n=30)
2 years Patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears, with an intact stable rotator cable, who received an 
IBR using the REGENETEN Implant at 2 years post-operatively demonstrated:
• Superior collagen organisation, without inflammation, seen on biopsy (p<0.0001)
 – Control group showed poorly organised collagen in 80% of patients
• Significantly thicker tendon at 6 months, compared to the control group, maintained throughout 
the follow-up period (p<0.0001)
• Healed tendon at 12 months (all patients had 100% tendon gap fill-in)
• Significantly better ASES and CMS scores at all timepoints, compared to the control group 
(p<0.0001)
 – Significantly lower VAS pain score at 6 months, compared to the control group (p<0.0001)
 – No difference in VAS pain score between groups at 24 months
• Significantly faster return to work and fewer days in a sling, compared to the control group 
(p<0.0001)
• Significantly fewer physical therapy sessions, compared to the control group (p<0.0001)

3/10
Bushnell BD, et al. 
Rotator cuff repair with a 
bioinductive bovine collagen 
implant has a low incidence 
of post-operative stiffness: 
review of 406 shoulders. 
Poster presented at 
the Annual Academy of 
Orthopaedic Surgeons 
(AAOS)
Annual Congress; March 
7–11 2023; Las Vegas, 
Nevada, USA. 
Case series PT + 
FT
406 cases (368 
patients, some 
patients had a 
bilateral rotator 
cuff repair)
32-month 
average 
follow-up 
(range: 
2–102 
months)
• A low incidence of post-operative stiffness (3.2%; 13/406) with a minimum of 2 months follow-
up:
 – 1.5% (4/269) in full-thickness tears
 – 6.6% (9/137) in partial-thickness tears
• A low incidence of cases requiring secondary intervention for post-operative stiffness (2.7%; 
11/406) with a minimum of 2 months follow-up:
 – Arthroscopic lysis of adhesions (n=10)
 – Isolated manipulation (n=1)
• Most of the patients who experienced stiffness (11/13) had one or more risk factors for stiffness 
including:
 – Diabetes
 – Smoking/tobacco use
 – Thyroid disease
 – Workers’ compensation status
McIntyre LF , et al. 
Resorbable bioinductive 
collagen implant is cost 
effective in the treatment 
of rotator cuff tears. 
Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 
2023;5(2):e367–374.
Available at: Arthroscopy, 
Sports Medicine and 
Rehabilitation
Economic 
analysis
FT 100 N/A • In the base case anaylsis, the REGENETEN Implant + SoC resulted in improved healing/re-tear 
rates, at an increased cost, compared with SoC alone
• When analysed by tear size, the cost-effectiveness of the REGENETEN Implant + SoC relative to 
SoC alone improved with increasing tear size
• In the scenario analysis including the impact on return to work, the REGENETEN Implant + SoC 
was cost-saving compared with SoC alone, saving $469,017 per 100 treated patients with full-
thickness rotator cuff tears
• One-way sensitivity analysis demonstrated increased cost-effectiveness, compared with the 
base case analysis, in patients at a higher risk of re-tear due to the following risk factors: age >60 
years, hypertension, alcohol consumption and obesity
Camacho-Chacon JA, et 
al. Bioinductive collagen 
implants facilitate tendon 
regeneration in rotator 
cuff tears. J Exp Orthop. 
2022;9(1):53.
Available at: Journal of 
Experimental Orthopaedics
Case series PT + 
FT
30 (enrolled), 
29 (at follow-up) 
1 year • No evidence of inflammatory, scarring or ischaemic changes in histological examination of all 
samples at 6 months post-operatively 
 – No evidence of any remaining REGENETEN Implant
• MRI demonstrated complete healing in 27 patients after 6 months; mean tendon thickness 
increased significantly by 1.84mm (from 4.18mm pre-operatively to 6.02mm; p=0.001)
 – All patients showed filling of the defect at 6 months with 90% completely filled and 10% 
with greater than 50% of the defect filled
 – No evidence of tear propagation at 1 year
 – Neotendon was indistinguishable from native tendon on MRI in all samples at 6 months and 
1 year
• Patients experienced statistically significant improvements vs pre-operative values in VAS pain 
score (p=0.003), ASES (p=0.001) and CMS (p=0.001) at 6 months post-operatively, which were 
sustained at 1 year
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings

4/10
Bushnell BD, et al. 
Two-year outcomes 
with a bioinductive 
collagen implant used 
in augmentation of 
arthroscopic repair of 
full-thickness rotator cuff 
tears: Final results of a 
prospective multi-center 
study. JSES Int. 2022. 
2022;31(12):2532–2541. 
Available at: 
Journal of Shoulder and 
Elbow
Case series FT 115 2 years • Between baseline and 2 year follow-up, the average mean tendon thickness increased by 
12.5% for medium tears and 17.1% for large tears
• Overall re-tear rate of medium tears; 4.6% at 3 months (3/66) and 10.6% at 1 year and 
2 years (7/66)
• Overall re-tear rate of large tears; 20.4% at 3 months (10/49), 24.5% at 1 year (12/49) and 
28.6% at 2 years (14/49)
• Significantly lower re-tear rate in patients who had repair with double-row (12/91, 13.2%) 
technique at 2 years, compared to single-row technique (p=0.0061)
 – Re-tear rates with single-row (9/24, 37.5%) technique at 2 years 
• More than 90% of patients had significant post-operative improvements in both medium and 
large tears in ASES Shoulder and CMS scores that exceeded respective MCIDs (p<0.001)
• Most patients (97.1%) surveyed were satisfied with the procedure; 100% of patients surveyed 
would recommend the procedure to a friend
• Nine re-operations were required: seven for persistent symptoms, one for superficial infection 
and one for inflammation and osteopenia
Bushnell BD, et al. Treatment 
of partial-thickness rotator 
cuff tear repairs with a 
resorbable bioinductive 
bovine collagen implant: 
1-year results from 
a prospective multi-
center registry. Orthop 
J Sports Med. 2021;9(8): 
23259671211027850.
Available at (open access): 
Orthopaedic Journal of 
Sports Medicine
Registry PT 272 (enrolled), 
227 (at follow-up)
1 year • All PROMs were significantly improved at 3, 6 and 1 year from pre-operative values, except VR-
12 MCS, which was significant at 1 year (p<0.05)
 – MCIDs for ASES, SANE and WORC scores were met or exceeded by >90% of patients at 
1 year
• In higher grade tears (≥grade 2) and compared with the augmented takedown and repair group 
(n=26), isolated bioinductive repair (REGENETEN Implant without surgical repair; n=201) resulted 
in:
 – Significantly better ASES, SANE and WORC scores at 2 and 6 weeks (p<0.05)
 – No significant differences in 1 year outcomes, except VR-12 PCS, which was significantly 
improved with isolated bioinductive repair (p=0.0213)
 – Significantly less sling time (19.1 vs 34.3 days; p<0.0001) and faster return to non-overhead 
sports (72.2 vs 128.9 days; p=0.0192); no other significant differences in recovery
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings

5/10
McIntyre LF , et al. Full-
thickness rotator cuff 
tears can be safely 
treated with a resorbable 
bioinductive bovine 
collagen implant: one-year 
results of a prospective, 
multicenter registry. 
Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 
2021;3(5):e1473-e1479.
Available at (open access): 
Arthroscopy, Sports Medicine 
and Rehabilitation
Registry FT 210 (enrolled), 
192 (at follow-up)
1 year • At 6 months and 1 year, ASES, SANE, VR-12 PCS and WORC were significantly improved from 
pre-operative values (p<0.001)
 – MCIDs were met or exceeded by 90.5% of patients for ASES, 84.3% of patients for SANE and 
87.2% of patients for WORC were observed 
 – VR-12 MCS was significantly improved at 6 months (p=0.002); no significant difference to 
pre-operative values at 1 year
• An ad-hoc analysis demonstrated similar results at 1 year regardless of tear size
• Mean duration of post-operative recovery (days): sling time, 36.3 (n=188); return to driving, 24.0 
(n=135); return to work, 48.4 (n=128); return to non-overhead sports, 105.4 (n=71), return to 
overhead sports, 131.7 (n=42)
• 18 patients required re-operation;* re-tear (n=11), infection† (n=3), shoulder stiffness/adhesive 
capsulitis (n=3), bursitis (n=1) or implant displacement after a fall (n=1)
Schlegel TF , et al. Isolated 
bioinductive repair of partial 
thickness rotator cuff 
tears using a resorbable 
bovine collagen implant: 
Two-year radiologic and 
clinical outcomes from a 
prospective multicentre 
study. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 
2021;30(8):1938–1948.
Available at: Journal of 
Shoulder and Elbow Surgery
Case series PT 33 (enrolled), 
31 (at follow-up)
2 years • At 2 years, 87% of tears had reduced in size by >50% from pre-operative measurements 
• No compliant patient progressed to a full-thickness tear; one non-compliant patient progressed 
~1 month after surgery
• Significant increase in mean tendon thickness from pre-operative values to 2 years: 1.2mm in 
intermediate-grade tears; 1.8mm in high-grade tears (p≤0.012)
• Improvements in CMS met or exceeded MCIDs for all patients with intermediate-grade tears and 
94% of patients with high-grade tears
• No significant difference in clinical outcomes, tear healing or tendon thickness based on tear 
location
Dai A, et al. Collagen-
based bioinductive implant 
for treatment of partial 
thickness rotator cuff 
tears. Bull Hosp Jt Dis. 
2020;78(3):195–201.
Available at (open access): 
Bulletin of the Hospital for 
Joint Diseases
Case series PT 30 (eligible), 
24 (at follow-up)
Mean: 
19.1 
months 
• Significant increase in mean ASES score by 22.5 points (45.6 pre-operatively to 68.1 at 19.1 
months post-operatively; p=0.001)
• Significant decrease in mean VAS pain from 8.3 pre-operatively to 3.8 at 19.1 months (p<0.001)
• Improvements in ASES score and VAS pain from pre-operative values were greatest in articular-
sided and intrasubstance tears
• Mean patient satisfaction score was 7.5/10
• Mean tendon thickness significantly increased by 0.8mm (5.7mm preoperatively to 6.5mm at 
9.9 months post-operatively; p=0.007)
• No implant-related complications; one patient had a traumatic re-tear 4 months post-
operatively
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings
*Re-operations can be attributed to multiple reasons. 
†Includes two recurrent infections, which were resolved with treatment.

6/10
Thon SG, et al. REGENETEN 
bio-inductive collagen 
scaffold for rotator 
cuff tears: indications, 
technique, clinical 
outcomes, and review of 
current literature. Ann Jt. 
2020;5:41.
Available at (open access): 
Annals of Joint
Review PT + 
FT
251 Mean: 
14.9 
months
(10.8–
32.0 
months)
Review article including Bokor 2015, Bokor 2016, Schlegel 2018, Thon 2019, and McIntyre 2019, 
reporting:
• 92–94% patient satisfaction in partial thickness tears (2 studies)
• 94–100% healing rate in partial thickness tears (2 studies)
• 89–91% patient satisfaction in full thickness tears (2 studies)
• 96–100% healing rate in full thickness tears (2 studies)
• 3.9% reoperation rate (10/251; 5 studies)
• 5.9% (15/251) failure rate (lack of patient satisfaction, lack of tendon healing, or need for 
reoperation) based on 5 studies
• 9.9% (25/251) complication rate (5 studies)
Micheloni GM, et al. Bio-
inductive implant for rotator 
cuff repair: our experience 
and technical notes. Acta 
Biomed. 2020;91:14-S.
Available at (open access): 
Acta Biomedica
Case series PT + 
FT
4 6 weeks • In 4 patients (1 PT tear receiving isolated bioinductive repair, 3 FT tears receiving a REGENETEN 
Implant to augment surgical repair), no complications were found at 6 weeks follow-up
• Increase in procedure duration by 10 minutes
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings

7/10
McIntyre LF , et al. Patient-
reported outcomes after use 
of a bioabsorbable collagen 
implant to treat partial 
and full-thickness rotator 
cuff tears. Arthroscopy. 
2019;35(8):2262–2271. 
Available at: Arthroscopy
Registry PT + 
FT
203 (eligible), 
173 (at follow-up)
1 year For patients with partial-thickness tears (n=90):
• MCIDs were achieved in VAS pain from 2 weeks (5.3 at baseline to 3.3 at 2 weeks and 1.1 at 
1 year; p<0.001) and ASES score from 6 weeks (47.0 at baseline to 60.6 at 6 weeks and 85.6 at 
1 year; p<0.001)
• Mean VAS pain and ASES score at 3 months were significantly improved compared to published 
results from patients undergoing transtendon or takedown repair without a REGENETEN 
Bioinductive Implant (p<0.05)
• Significant improvements were observed from 6 weeks in SANE score (42.5 at baseline to 59.4 
at 6 weeks and 86.6 at 1 year; p<0.001), VR-12 PCS (35.8 at baseline to 39.1 at 6 weeks and 
49.7 at 1 year; p<0.002) and WORC Index (38.2 at baseline to 53.5 at 6 weeks and 84.4 at 1 
year; p<0.001)
• Time in sling and time to return to driving and sport were found to be shorter than published 
results for standard surgical techniques
For patients with full-thickness tears (n=83):
• MCIDs were achieved in VAS pain from 2 weeks (5.2 at baseline to 3.7 at 2 weeks and 1.2 at 1 
year; p<0.001) and ASES score from 3 months (45.5 at baseline to 68.4 at 3 months and 83.8 at 
1 year; p<0.001)
• Significant improvements from 6 weeks in WORC index (35.0 at baseline to 41.1 at 6 weeks and 
80.1 at 1 year; p<0.001), and from 3 months in SANE score (39.2 at baseline to 63.3 at 3 months 
and 80.7 at 1 year; p<0.001) and VR-12 PCS (34.5 at baseline to 40.8 at 3 months and 45.7 at 1 
year; p<0.001)
• Shorter time to return to driving and sport compared to published results for standard surgical 
techniques
Thon SG, et al. Evaluation 
of healing rates and 
safety with a bioinductive 
collagen patch for large and 
massive rotator cuff tears; 
2-year safety and clinical 
outcomes. Am J Sports Med. 
2019;47(8):1901–1908.
Available at: American 
Journal of Sports Medicine
Case series FT 23 2 years • No implant-related adverse events
• Tendon healing in 22/23 patients (96%) on ultrasound at 2 years
• Treatment success in 21/23 patients (91%) at 2 years; one healing failure and one failure due to 
progression of glenohumeral osteoarthritis 
• Mean tendon thickness on ultrasound increased from 6.29mm at 3 months to 7.72mm at 
1 year, decreasing to 7.28mm at 2 years
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings

8/10
Bokor DJ, et al. Healing of 
partial-thickness rotator 
cuff tears following 
arthroscopic augmentation 
with a highly-porous 
collagen implant: a 5-year 
clinical and MRI follow-up. 
Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 
2019;9(3):338–347.
Available at (open access): 
Muscles, Ligaments and 
Tendons Journal
Case series PT 11 5 years • 8/11 patients (73%) had no decline in tendon integrity between 2 and 5 years
• Mean tendon thickness significantly decreased between 2 and 5 years (5.9 vs 5.2mm; 
p=0.0012), but remained significantly greater than pre-operative values (4.3mm; p<0.0001)
• Significant improvements from baseline in ASES total score and ASES pain score were sustained 
to 5 years (p≤0.01) and were not significantly different to 2 year values
Schlegel TF , et al. Radiologic 
and clinical evaluation 
of a bioabsorbable 
collagen implant to treat 
partial-thickness tears: a 
prospective multicenter 
study. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 
2018;27(2):242–251.
Available at: Journal of 
Shoulder and Elbow Surgery
Case series PT 33 1 year • Reduction in tear size of ≥1 grade from baseline in 31/33 patients (94%) at 1 year
 – 8/33 patients (24%) had no visible defect
• Significant increase in mean tendon thickness on 1 year MRI versus pre-operative values 
(p<0.0001)
• Improvements in ASES pain, ASES shoulder index and CMS were significant at 
1 year compared with pre-operative values (p<0.0001)
 – Improvements in each score were greater than twice the respective MCIDs
• 30/33 patients (94%) were satisfied with the results of their procedure at 1 year
Arnoczky SP , et al. 
Histologic evaluation 
of biopsy specimens 
obtained after rotator cuff 
repair augmented with 
a highly porous collagen 
implant. Arthroscopy. 
2017;33(2):278–283.
Available at: Arthroscopy
Case series FT 7 Up to 9 
months
• At the earliest time period (5 weeks), the biopsy showed host cell ingrowth and early collagen 
formation
• At 3 months, there was increased collagen formation, maturation and organization on the 
surface of the implant 
• By 6 months, the implant was no longer visible, with new tendon-like tissue and oriented 
collagen indicative of functional loading 
• No evidence of foreign body or inflammatory reactions at any time point
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings

9/10
Study Design Tear n= (of patients) Follow-up Key findings
Bokor DJ, et al. Evidence of 
healing of partial-thickness 
rotator cuff tears following 
arthroscopic augmentation 
with a collagen implant: 
a 2-year MRI follow-up. 
Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 
2016;6(1):16–25.
Available at (open access): 
Muscles, Ligaments and 
Tendons Journal
Case series PT 13 2 years • At 3 months after surgery there was a significant increase in mean tendon thickness of 2.2mm 
at 3 months versus pre-operative values (p<0.0001)
• At 2 years, new tissue was indistinguishable from underlying tissue in 12/13 patients (92%)
• Tendon thickness at 2 years was significantly greater (p<0.0001) than pre-operative values
• At 1 year, all assessable patients had a reduction in tear size of ≥1 grade, with complete tear 
disappearance in 7 of 10 patients with a measurable pre-operative tear size 
• Significant improvement in clinical scores over the 2 year follow-up period from pre-operative 
values: CMS, Constant-Murley pain score, ASES total score and ASES pain score (p≤0.01)
• Outcomes were satisfactory for 12/13 patients (92%) at 2 years
Bokor DJ, et al. Preliminary 
investigation of a biological 
augmentation of rotator 
cuff repairs using a collagen 
implant: a 2-year MRI 
follow-up. Muscles Ligaments 
Tendons J. 2015;5(3):144–
150.
Available at (open access): 
Muscles, Ligaments and 
Tendons Journal
Case series FT 9 2 years • No MRI evidence of re-tear or gap formation, with the integrity of all repaired tendons intact at 
2 years
• Significant increase in mean tendon thickness versus published values at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months 
(p<0.01), with an average of 2mm new tissue over the bursal surface
• New tissue rapidly matured, improved in quality and was indistinguishable from the native 
tendon by 1 year
• From 1 to 2 years, tendon thickness slightly decreased, likely reflecting continued functional 
remodeling
• Significant improvement in clinical scores at 2 years versus pre-operative measures: 
CMS and Constant-Murley pain score (both p<0.001); ASES score and ASES pain score (both 
p<0.001)
• Outcomes were satisfactory for 8/9 patients (89%) at 2 years

Developed by Evidence Communications, 
Global Clinical & Medical Affairs
www.smith-nephew.com
 10/10
Sports Medicine, Smith & Nephew, Inc. 150 Minuteman Road, Andover, MA 01810 USA. 
31499 V7 10/24. Published October 2024. ©2024 Smith+Nephew. All rights reserved. ◊Trademark of Smith+Nephew. All Trademarks acknowledged.
References
Abbreviations 
ASES = American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons; CI = confidence interval; CMS = Constant-Murley score; FT = full-thickness; IBR = isolated bioinductive repair; MCIDs = minimal clinically important differences; NA = not applicable; PROMs = patient-reported outcome measures; 
PT = partial-thickness; QALY = quality-adjusted life years; RR = relative risk; SANE = single assessment numeric evaluation; SoC = standard of care; VAS = visual analogue scale; VR-12 MCS = Veterans RAND 12 Item Health Survey Mental Component Score; VR-12 PCS = Veterans 
RAND 12 Item Health Survey Physical Component Score; WORC = Western Ontario Rotator Cuff.
Products may not be available in all markets because product availability is subject to the regulatory and/or medical practices in individual markets. Please contact your Smith+Nephew representative or distributor if you have questions 
about the availability of Smith+Nephew products in your area. For detailed product information, including indications for use, contraindications, precautions and warnings, please consult the product’ s applicable Instructions for Use (IFU) 
prior to use.
1. Arnoczky SP , Bishai SK, Schofield B, et al. Histologic evaluation of biopsy specimens obtained after rotator cuff repair augmented with a highly porous collagen implant. Arthroscopy. 2017;33(2):278–283. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2016.06.047 
2. Bokor DJ, Sonnabend D, Deady L, et al. Evidence of healing of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears following arthroscopic augmentation with a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI follow-up. Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 2016;6(1):16–25. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27331028/ 
3. Bushnell BD, Bishai SK, Krupp RJ, et al. Treatment of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears with a resorbable bioinductive bovine collagen implant: 1-year results from a prospective multicenter registry. Orthop J Sports Med. 2021;9(8):23259671211027850. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/23259671211027850
4. Camacho-Chacon JA, Cuenca-Espierrez J, Roda-Rojo V , et al. Bioinductive collagen implants facilitate tendon regeneration in rotator cuff tears. J Exp Orthop. 2022;9(1):53. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40634-022-00495-7
5. Ruiz Ibán MA, Navlet MG, Marco SM, et al. Augmentation of a transosseous-equivalent repair in posterosuperior non-acute rotator cuff tears with a bioinductive collagen implant decreases the re-tear rate at one year. A randomised controlled trial. Arthroscopy. 
2024;40(6):1760–1773. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2023.12.014 
6. Thon SG, O'Malley L 2nd, O'Brien MJ, Savoie FH 3rd. Evaluation of healing rates and safety with a bioinductive collagen patch for large and massive rotator cuff tears: 2-year safety and clinical outcomes. Am J Sports Med. 2019;47(8):1901–1908. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0363546519850795
7. Bokor DJ, Sonnabend D, Deady L, et al. Preliminary investigation of a biological augmentation of rotator cuff repairs using a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI follow-up. Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 2015;5(3):144–150. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26605186/
8. Dai A, Campbell A, Bloom D, Baron S, Begly J, Meislin R. Collagen-based bioinductive implant for treatment of partial thickness rotator cuff tears. Bull Hosp Jt Dis. 2020;78(3):195–201. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32857027/
9. McIntyre LF , McMillan S, Trenhaile SW, Bishai SK, Bushnell BD. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears can be safely treated with a resorbable bioinductive bovine collagen implant: one-year results of a prospective, multicenter registry. Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 2021;3(5)::e1473–
e1479. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asmr.2021.07.009
10. Bushnell BD, Connor PM, Harris HW, Ho CP , Trenhaile SW, Abrams JS. Two-year outcomes with a bioinductive collagen implant used in augmentation of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears: final results of a prospective multi-center study. J Shoulder Elbow 
Surg. 2022. 2022;31(12):2532–2541. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2022.05.025
11. Micheloni GM, Salmaso G, Zecchinato G, Giaretta S, Barison E, Momoli A. Bio-inductive implant for rotator cuff repair: our experience and technical notes. Acta Biomed. 2020;91(14-S):e2020004. https://doi.org/10.23750/abm.v91i14-s.10824
12. Schlegel TF , Abrams JS, Bushnell BD, Brock JL, Ho CP . Radiologic and clinical evaluation of a bioabsorbable collagen implant to treat partial-thickness tears: a prospective multicenter study. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2018;27(2):242–251. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jse.2017.08.023
13. Camacho Chacón JA, Roda Rojo V , Martinez AM, et al. An isolated bioinductive repair vs sutured repair for full-thickness rotator cuff tears: 2-year results of a double blinded, randomized controlled trial. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2024;33(9):1894–1904. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2024.03.043
14. Van Kampen C, Arnoczky S, Parks P , et al. Tissue-engineered augmentation of a rotator cuff tendon using a reconstituted collagen scaffold: a histological evaluation in sheep. Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 2013;3(3):229–235. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24367785/
15. Bokor DJ, Sonnabend DH, Deady L, et al. Healing of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears following arthroscopic augmentation with a highly-porous collagen implant: a 5-year clinical and MRI follow-up. Muscles Ligaments Tendons J. 2019;9(3):338–347. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.32098/mltj.03.2019.07
16. McElvany MD, McGoldrick E, Gee AO, Neradilek MB, Matsen FA, 3rd. Rotator cuff repair: published evidence on factors associated with repair integrity and clinical outcome. Am J Sports Med. 2015;43(2):491–500. https://doi.org/10.1177/0363546514529644
17. Hein J, Reilly JM, Chae J, Maerz T, Anderson K. Retear rates after arthroscopic single-row, double-row, and suture bridge rotator cuff repair at a minimum of 1 year of imaging follow-up: a systematic review. Arthroscopy. 2015;31(11):2274–2281. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2015.06.004
18. McIntyre LF , Bishai SK, Brown PB 3rd, Bushnell BD, Trenhaile SW. Patient-reported outcomes after use of a bioabsorbable collagen implant to treat partial and full thickness rotator cuff tears. Arthroscopy. 2019;35(8):2262–2271. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2019.02.019
19. Schlegel TF , Abrams JS, Angelo RL, Getelman MH, Ho CP , Bushnell BD. Isolated bioinductive repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears using a resorbable bovine collagen implant: two-year radiologic and clinical outcomes from a prospective multicenter study. J Shoulder 
Elbow Surg. 2021;30(8):1938–1948. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2020.10.022
20. Lo IKY , Burkhart SS. Transtendon arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness, articular surface tears of the rotator cuff. Arthroscopy. 2004;20(2):214–220. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2003.11.042
21. Millett P J, Wilcox RB 3rd, O’Holleran JD, Warner JJP . Rehabilitation of the rotator cuff: an evaluation-based approach. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2006;14(11):599–609. https://doi.org/10.5435/00124635-200610000-00002
22. Rashid MS, Cooper C, Cook J, et al. Increasing age and tear size reduce rotator cuff repair healing rate at 1 year. Acta Orthop. 2017;88(6):606–611. https://doi.org/10.1080/17453674.2017.1370844 
23. Bushnell BD, Piller CP , Hicks JS, Jarvis B, Jarvis RC, Baudier RS. Rotator cuff repair with a bioinductive bovine collagen implant has a low incidence of post-operative stiffness: review of 406 shoulders. Poster presented at: the Annual Academy of Orthopaedics Surgeons (AAOS) 
Annual Congress; March 7–11 2023; Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
24. Yatseta Yatseta O, Escobar PVF . All-inside bioinductive collagen implant augmentation for the repair of myotendinous rotator cuff tears: surgical technique and report of preliminary results. Acta Scientific Orthopaedics. 2022;5(11):96–101. 
https://actascientific.com/ASOR/ASOR-05-0607.php
25. Zhang T, Ajayi A, Hajjar M, Fleckenstein CM, Nolan J, Hasan SS. Arthroscopic repair of retracted large and massive rotator cuff tears with and without augmentation with a bio-Inductive collagen implant reveals substantial and comparable clinical improvement. Arthroscopy. 
2024;40(5):1434–1442. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arthro.2023.10.024
26. Yeazell S, Lutz A, Bohon H, et al. Increased stiffness and reoperation rate in partial rotator cuff repairs treated with a bovine patch: a propensity-matched trial. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2022;31(6S):S131–S135. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2022.02.003
27. Ting RS, Loh YC, Rosenthal R, et al. Revision rotator cuff repair with versus without an arthroscopically inserted onlay bioinductive implant in workers’ compensation patients. Orthop J Sports Med. 2023;11(6):23259671231175883. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/23259671231175883
28. Bushnell BD, Connor PM, Harris HW, Ho CP , Trenhaile SW, Abrams JS. Retear rates and clinical outcomes at 1 year after repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears augmented with a bioinductive collagen implant: a prospective multicenter study. JSES Int. 2020;5(2):228–237. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jseint.2020.10.020
29. Priyavadhana S, Ashraf M, Sakthivelan V , Purudappa PP , Mounasamy V , Sambandam S. Non-acute rotator cuff tear: repair augmented with reconstituted absorbable collagen scaffold (RACS)- systematic review. Arch Bone Jt Surg. 2021;9(2):135–140. 
https://doi.org/10.22038/abjs.2020.52764.2612
30. Mandalia K, Mousad A, Welborn B, et al. Scaffold- and graft-based biological augmentation of rotator cuff repair: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis of preclinical and clinical studies for 2010-2022. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2023;32(9):1784–1800. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2023.03.031
31. Warren JR, Domingo-Johnson ER, Sorensen AA, Cheng AL, Latz KH, Cil A. Bioinductive patch as an augmentation for rotator cuff repair, a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2024;S1058-2746(24)00448–8. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2024.05.002
32. Longo UG, Marino M, Lalli A, Bandini B, Giannarelli D, Ruiz Ibán MÁ. Arthroscopic management of isolated partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2024;32(9):2358–2375. https://doi.org/10.1002/ksa.12326
33. Thon SG, Belk JW, Bravman JT, McCarty EC, Savoie FH. Regeneten bio-inductive collagen scaffold for rotator cuff tears: indications, technique, clinical outcomes, and review of current literature. Ann Joint. 2020;5:41. https://aoj.amegroups.org/article/view/5816/html
34. McIntyre LF , Nherera LM, Schlegel TF . Resorbable bioinductive collagen implant is cost effective in the treatment of rotator cuff tears. Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 2023;5(2):e367–e374. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asmr.2023.01.002
35. Rognoni C, Nherera LM, Garofalo R, et al. Economic evaluation of a bioinductive implant for the repair of rotator cuff tears compared with standard surgery in Italy. Adv Ther. 2023;40(12):5271–5284. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12325-023-02686-9
